>> Maximiliano Firtman: Object literals
that sometimes we say JSON, okay?
But actually, JSON isn't a spec,
it's hardly defined, and
actually, these changes
are not part of the JSON spec.
So that's why it's object
literals that at one point, and
JavaScript object literal was the same as
JSON, but now we are making a difference.
So for example, I have two variables,
two immutable variables or
two constants, name and age,
and then a function, greet.
And then I'm greeting a person,
and this is an object literal.
So now we have a shorthand property,
so instead of saying name, name, age,
it's equals to age, and greet is
equals to greet, that is the normal.
Because I have the key,
this is key: value,
JSON is key: value, a key, colon, value.
When the key and the value are just
the same, the same name and
age, we have a shorthand now, and
we can just say name, age, okay?
Again, if you do that,
you're getting out of the JSON syntax,
that's not JSON-compatible, okay?
It's an object literal.
So that's the shorthand, okay, both for
properties and methods, that actually,
method is just a property
of type function.
And another new thing that
we have is a way to define
the property name as a compute variable.
What is this?
For example, I can create a constant here.
The name of the property is in a variable.
So I will say the property,
the newProp is gonna be the email.
So then, if I wanna say the name
of the person, the age,
the email, instead of saying emails,
email: to wherever.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: I
will say instead of email,
I wanna take the value of
the newProp variable, okay?
So if I say newProp here, it's not gonna
work because it will be person.newProp.
Make sense?
So if I want actually to take
the value of the newProp,
I need to use brackets, square brackets.
In this case, I'm saying the email,
so the person will have an email now.
So if I do console.log(person.email),
I have a greet, what is greet?
I don't know, remove that.
I have a greet, remove the greet, I don't
need the greet now, when I see the email.
Let's see, I have an error
because I don't have a comma.
Remember that the literal needs a comma,
okay?
So there we are.
So now I'm getting the email, okay?
So again, person.email,
you don't see the email.
When you see the object declaration,
The email and the name of
the property was defined in brackets.
So you can kind of dynamically create
an object literal based on this.
>> Audience: Super in the weeds,
but so it's like maps.
You can have the key be an object, right?
Does that function similarly with
dynamically computed property names or
strings only?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: No,
in a JavaScript object,
the key is always a string,
it must be a string.
So that key must be a string.
If not, it's not gonna work.
If you want something different as a key,
you need a map.
We'll get into a map in a couple of
minutes when we get into collections,
okay?
But it's always, in a JavaScript object
literal, the key is always a string.
But it can be a string with
weird characters, okay?
It can be a string.
Also, you can use this syntax, okay,
that the new syntax that we have.
I'm not saying you wanna do this, okay?
But I can open here and
say postal address, with spaces.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Can I do that?
Yes, with this new syntax,
and then I pass a string.
The key is a string, but
using spaces that, of course,
then you cannot use the .syntax
to access that property.
Make sense?
And you can also even
use something like this.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: You can
have a little cow as the name of
a property in an object literal.
Any Unicode character will work,
any emoji will work.
Again, I'm not saying you are going
to use that, but you can.
But for that, you need to use this special
syntax, this new syntax available in ESX.